# Ransomware Incident Response

This playbook provides step-by-step instructions for responding to a ransomware incident.<br>
<a href="https://github.com/MenakaGodakanda/Security-Incident-Response-Playbooks/blob/main/playbooks/ransomware/playbook.md">Playbook for Ransomware</a>

## Sample Log Data

- A sample log file is created to simulate a data breach (`playbooks/ransomware/examples/sample_log.txt`).
- Double-check that `sample_log.txt` actually contains data relevant to ransomware.
- Ensure it is correctly formatted for the script to detect.

## Run the Detection Script

- `remove_ransomware.py` is the script to detect ransomware.
- Ensure that the Python script has the necessary permissions to read from the log file (`sample_log.txt`) and write to `example_output.txt`.
- The `remove_ransomware.py` script creates the `example_output.txt` file, which contains alerts generated by the `remove_ransomware.py` script when it finds log entries relevant to ransomware.
- Navigate to the data breach playbook directory:
    ```
    cd playbooks/ransomware
    ```
- Run the provided scripts:
    ```
    python scripts/remove_ransomware.py
    ```
- The output should look like this:<br><br>

- Check the `playbooks/ransomware/examples/` directory and verify the `example_output.txt` is created.

## Run the Ansible Playbook
- The Ansible playbook is used to automate the response to a security incident.
- Make sure your virtual environment is activated and run the Ansible playbook using the following command:
    ```
    ansible-playbook -i inventory automation/ansible_playbook.yml
    ```
- `-i automation/inventory`: This flag specifies the path to your inventory file. Adjust the path if your inventory file is located elsewhere.

- The playbook installs and configures necessary services, and the output demonstrates the steps Ansible takes to complete these tasks.

- The output should look like this:<br><br>
